doc/userguide: add ips chapter; add concept (#13596)
OISF/suricata: doc/userguide/ips/ips-concept.rst

IPS Concept
===========

> Intrusion Prevention System mode, or IPS mode, is the Suricata mode that makes Suricata a traffic filter.

Reviewer: suggestion:
```suggestion
Intrusion Prevention System mode, or IPS mode, is the Suricata mode that makes it a traffic filter.
```

> It will by default allow all traffic, and will use ``drop`` or ``reject`` rules to block unwanted traffic.

Reviewer: suggestion:
```suggestion
By default it will allow all traffic, and will use ``drop`` or ``reject`` rules to block unwanted traffic.
```

It is generally used ``inline``, where threat detection rules are used to drop known bad traffic.

The ``inline`` operations are either on layer 2 (bridge, for example using AF_PACKET or DPDK) or on layer 3
(routing, for example in NFQueue or IPFW).

Differences from the passive IDS mode
-------------------------------------

TCP stream engine
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Where in IDS mode TCP traffic is only inspected after the acknoledgement (ACK) for it has been received, in IPS mode
the default behavior is different: new data is inspected immediately, together with previous data where possible.
The inspection happens in a sliding window. This behavior is controlled by the ``stream.inline`` setting.

> In case of overlapping data, the first data Suricata receives is accepted. Follow up data that overlaps with this is

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
In case of overlapping data, the first data Suricata receives is accepted. Follow-up data that overlaps with this is
```

then checked against the first data. If it is different, the traffic on the wire is rewritten to match the first data.

> The sliding window inspection::

Reviewer: suggestion:
```suggestion
The sliding window inspection can be visualized as such::
```

    Packet 1: [hdr][segment data 1     ]
    Segments: [segment data 1     ]
    Window:   [ inspection window ]

    Packet 2: [hdr][segment data 2]
    Segments: [segment data 1     ][segment data 2]
    Window:   [ inspection window                 ]

    Packet 3: [hdr][segment data 3]
    Segments: [segment data 1     ][segment data 2][segment data 3]
    Window:            [ inspection window                        ]

    Packet 4: [hdr][segment data 4]
    Segments: [segment data 2][segment data 3][segment data 4]
    Window:            [ inspection window                   ]

Each segment's data is inspected together with the other available data. One consequence of this is that there

> can be significant rescanning of data, which has a performance impact.

Reviewer: Could/ should we also mention that this can lead to alerts seen for "wrong packet data", sometimes?
I remember observing this sometimes when enabling payload printing for some alerts. (or am I mixing up and this happens with non-inline mode only?)

http body inspection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Similar to the sliding window approach in the TCP stream engine, the HTTP body inspection will happen in a

> sliding manner by default.

Reviewer 2: I do not understand how this is different than IDS.
Do we just try to match ASAP ? (when we buffer more in IDS mode)
Is there an example ?

::

    app-layer:
      protocols:
        http:
          libhtp:
             default-config:
               # auto will use http-body-inline mode in IPS mode, yes or no set it statically
               http-body-inline: auto

file.data
^^^^^^^^^

For HTTP, the ``file.data`` logic is the same as the body inspection above.

> 

Reviewer: nit extra line

Exception Policies
------------------

By default, when IPS mode is enabled, the exception policies are set to block (``drop``). This is to make
sure rules cannot be bypassed due to Suricata reaching an error state in parsing, reaching internal resource
limits and other exception conditions.

See :ref:`Exception Polices documentation <exception policies>`.

> Differences from firewall mode

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
Differences from Firewall Mode
```

------------------------------

> The main difference with the firewall mode is the default ``drop`` policy in the firewall mode. This means

Reviewer: suggestion:
```suggestion
The main difference is that unlike IPS mode, firewall mode has a default ``drop`` policy. This means
```

> that a ruleset will have to be created to allow traffic to be accepted, instead of accepting traffic by
> default and filtering out unwanted traffic.

Reviewer: suggestion:
```suggestion
that a ruleset must be created to allow traffic to be accepted, instead of accepting traffic by
default and filtering out unwanted traffic.
```
